---
layout: post
category: misc
title: Manifesto.
tags:
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). misc

I write for purely narcissistic reasons. I don't feel that I've anything particularly noteworthy to say nor do I think highly of my writing ability but for me, at least, writing is the path of least resistance.

It's been made known to me that I'm something of a blabbermouth when it comes to written communication - that I write more than I read and that I've a tendency to flood group chats. It often seems like I don't really care about what others have to say and that replies are just a vehicle for me to self-indulge in more writing but this could not be further from the truth. The truth is that when I read what others have written, I do care; I look at it as if it were a piece of artwork. Of course, it likely has the quality of a toddler's magnum opus drawn in hand-me-down crayon but think of what that toddler's parents feel. To them, it's something special; they'll fold it up, lock it up and cherish it at childhood's end.

The key difference is that I'm not anyone's parent; why should I care what you have to say? The crux of it is that I've always considered writing to be a form of content creation, even when the purpose of it is simple communication. There's an sense of permanence when it comes to written word - what you say out loud will come and go but writing lingers, it's tangible. You won't remember saying "hello" on a wintry morning of '99 but maybe you'll find something to that effect on a old crumpled post-it note on the floor of your attic and think "hey, I wrote that!" So I do care what you have to say, even if I don't like or know you. Just like uncountable Rowling fans will line up for a short message on the cover of their not-first-edition books, I'm lining up for yours; I'm a fan of you.

I suppose that brings me back to why I write. I hold no hope that my words will bring me money. I hold no hope that my words will bring me fame. I like to think that if those were the cases, I'd put a considerable effort into actually learning how to write properly instead of continuing with my natural mishmash style. So really it comes down to the same reason that I appreciate others' writing, even if it's by a stranger in a newspaper - it feels productive, it feels like I'm making something and, of course, it feels fun and I'm lost in it once I start. I suppose there's potential for serendipity as well; it may come to be that future civilisations will stumble upon my musings and sift through them as a fun activity in an ancient history on Friday afternoon so to them, I have this to say: "hello."

While I did say that I wasn't making an effort to improve my writing ability, perhaps that's not entirely true. I've much disdain for people who overindulge in "big" words. To me, it's a hallmark of the type of person who's not really intelligent but tries to be; it's almost as criminal as using adverbs. A fairly good analogy is to think of words as paints. "Big" words are like premixed colours in that you can achieve a relatively specific meaning at the cost of originality on the part of the writer and imagination on the part of the reader. With a palette of basic colours, you can reach the same effect and beyond; I think it should be everyone's goal to find new ways of expressing an idea, even if it's the same idea. To that end, I'm always consciously trying to moderate my language. That's not to say I was ever guilty of using "big" words. If I ever did then it's been suppressed deep into my subconscious. However, I've the nasty habit of being abrasive in my everyday speech so I'm looking to clean myself up.

I don't consider myself to be a particularly creative person. That's probably why I write film reviews rather than fiction like most aspiring writers. I also don't have the typical desire to write a book. Of course, I wouldn't be able to resist if an outstanding idea strikes me but I'm not giving myself an ultimatum. It's not my goal to publish but it's my goal to one day have a goal.

Let's go back to talking film reviews. It's fairly easy to draw connections between literature - to find meaning where there perhaps is none. I know a lot of people try to do this with film and for the most part, I enjoy reading their reviews but I'm not fooling myself. I consider writing reviews to be mostly derivative. There's not a lot of room for originality or creativity so I treat it as a temporary endeavour. Films give me something to write about until I find my muse.

Asian romance films have never been my favourite genre, that privilege probably belongs to romantic comedies and cyberpunk. That's one of the reasons I've chosen to focus on them for my reviews - to explore a genre that I've previously shied away from. Another, more cynical reason, is that I feel that they're easier to analyse and by extension, easier to write about. It's partly because of the genre itself but also because the Asian film scene is, as a whole, more immature than the west - in both definitions of the word. I may be doing myself a disservice but being lazy is also one of my degeneracies and it often conflicts with my wanting to write - this is a good middle ground.

My favourite film would have to be "The Terminal". I'm a big fan of Tom Hanks, I think his characteristic mannerisms are naturally endearing without compromising his acting ability and without repeating performances. I may not be a smart man but I know what love is. Love is what I feel for Tom Hanks. Love is also what I feel for James Cameron's "Avatar" which would be my favourite cinematic experience. It's a little cliched; I'm sure it's also a lot of people's greatest theatre experience. I watched it at Sydney's IMAX theatre quite late into its run. I'm not sure how I avoided all information on what the film was about, it's likely because I wasn't as interested in film back then. Regardless, I went in not knowing anything about "Avatar" and I left in a daze. Evidently, I did not kill myself after viewing the film but for the better part of 3 hours, James Cameron freed me from my earthly bonds - I was there; I was on Pandora. I went through the whole fan phase: I downloaded the soundtrack, I read online fan forums and I even read some fan fiction. It was about Neytiri "taking care" of Jake Sully's inanimate body. I would not recommend it. 

To add to this, I'm beyond excited for Avatar 2. And Avatar 3. And Avatar 4. While I'm disappointed that the sequels have continually be pushed back, just the thought of watching them sends my blood rushing. I would fly down from the heavens or drag myself up from hell just to see them.

I've never had a diary. I don't worry about what I've forgotten because I wouldn't know that I've forgotten it but it's always nice to have something to look back on - something that's representative of the type of person I was at a particular stage in life. I'd like to look back on my current self and be humoured at how silly I was or maybe how on the money I was. It's always a joy to find my exercise books from primary and secondary school - to see how much I've changed and how much I haven't. The most surprising thing is how little my handwriting's changed, I still wonder if that's a testament to how good it was back then or how poor it is now. Sadly, typing this out means that there's not much room for that last part but for the other reasons, I feel there's enough justification for writing this piece of self-indulgence.

That just about covers it. I'll continue to write some random tidbits below though. They're things I think about every now and then; I'm hoping that by writing them down, I'll spend less time repeating the same thoughts in my head.


h2. Names

I think Western European female names are the best in the world. In no particular order, I consider these to be the top-tier, cream-of-the-crop names: Lydia, Claudia, Anna, Annabel (spelling not optional), Audrey, Claire, Diana (maybe) and Beatrice (with original pronunciation). Of course, there's a lot of not-so-good ones but they've mostly been relegated to history. The only modern one I would like to see gone is Jessica.

Western European male names are considerably more disappointing. Some of the biblical names are passable - Michael comes to mind but it's become far too common to be desirable. I'm partial to Alexander as well.

Other European names are a step down in quality. Lars and Johannes (+ variants) are okay though and if I had a boat, I would name it Brunhild.

Indian names aren't bad. I like Indra but for the most part, I find that some of the better ones have already been taken by famous historical figures - Siddhartha and Gotama come to mind. To use them as names for children might be slightly pretentious - like calling your kid "Jesus."

Japanese names are mostly concentrated on female names when it comes to quality. I find the -mi suffixed names to be much better than the -ko ones. Going by the list on behindthename.com, these are all quite nite: Manami, Naomi, Nanami and Tomomi Despite what I said earlier about -ko names, I quite like Kiyoko too. Japanese male names are mostly terrible.

When it comes to Russian names, males are the standout. Stanislav and Vladimir are very consistent and have that one-size-fits-all feel whilst still having a rustic quality. Here, female names aren't quite as good but Natasha/Natalya are acceptable, albeit not as universally fitting.

h3. Music

It's my goal to listen to 10,000 unique artists. However, it's become rather difficult as I often listen to music alongside reading or doing work. For that reason, my listening statistics are heavily weighted towards non-English pop & soft rock. It's not that I think that they're of high quality but the lack of comprehensible lyrics means that it doesn't interfere with my thinking. I could probably have achieved my 10,000 goal if I stuck to listening to new artists but for the past year, I've been stuck in the mid-5000s.

My listening statistics are available here: http://www.last.fm/user/Stevm .

Listing my favourite songs would be a little too cliched so I'll try and recall the very first song that I recognised from each of the languages in which I listen to.

I lived my life in Australia so naturally, I'm most familiar with English music. I was born in 1993 so my most memorable childhood song would be ""I Love You Always Forever":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdydipoUjkw" by Donna Lewis in 1996. Its lyrics also aptly describe my feelings towards the song. At my first primary school, we'd do morning exercises to the radio and so the second earliest song that I remember is Cher's ""Believe.":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Uu3kCEEc98" She's already legendary so there's not much to say here. To end the decade, ""I Try":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WEQ0l_m3Xm0" by Macy Gray is my third childhood song. I've never listened to any other song of her discography. Maybe it's because I find the idea of one hit wonders to be very romantic - I don't want to ruin the magic of her voice by hearing it in any other song.

The Cantonese music industry is well and truly dead. With the Chinese preference for solo artists, the Cantonese band Beyond stands as the definitive Chinese band and the source of the first Cantonese songs that I listened to. The only chance that their classics such as ""海闊天空":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qu_FSptjRic" would be forgotten is if the Cantonese itself is forgotten. I'm beyond disappointed that the band never made it past my birth year of 1993 after the lead singer fell from a stage. It'd be proper to say "rest in peace" but the truth is, I wish you were here.

I first listened to a Japanese song some time in 2008. I was linked by a friend to a cover of Supercell's ""Melt":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WZEvw_WLjDQ" (or "this version":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BAyH7jexixE which has better instrumentals at the cost of drowning out her voice), sung by Gazelle. She was already popular back then but this was the first time that I'd known an artist before they were signed. She's now known as Yanagi Nagi but sadly, she's proof that a good voice is nothing if you don't have creativity or a good producer. Now that she has no association with Supercell, her songs are disappointing to say the least. I consider "Melt" to be the definitive version of Supercell's definitive song and I'd like to see her cover "ODDS&ENDS" even though that'll never happen. However, if we're talking "proper" songs by signed artists then the first Japanese song that I recognised would have to be "Fragile" by Every Little Thing.

If the Cantonese music industry is dead then the Mandarin industry was never truly alive. China is still in a creative rut. I'm sure some people will be quick to blame Mao but time heals old wounds. Although Faye Wong is heavily associated with Cantonese pop, she was born in mainland China and has many Mandarin hits to her name so I'll place her as my first listen for Mandarin music. Her songs were played in my mum's old store - ""约定":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_p1EUrJJSM" is the most memorable. It's a Cantonese song though so I'll have to nominate ""我願意":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkhyIdWnA44" for my first Mandarin song.

My discovery of Swedish music was one of wonderful timing. I first started using Spotify in 2011. Back then, it had yet to come to Australia so I paid the $10 to try the US version for a month. It was worth it. Besides playlist sharing, I find the top 100 charts by country to be Spotify's most useful feature. At the time, Veronica Maggio was topping the Swedish charts and since there hasn't been another Swedish album that's had the same success. I'm not sure which song of her's I listened to first but "Snälla bli min ":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNbnNAJ4oGY is the most memorable. As a side note, Timbuktu's  	
""Resten av ditt liv":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dvgzUqmaSWg" was also from 2011 so that may also have been my first Swedish song.


