---
layout: post
category: film
title: '[Mini] Unfriended (2015)'
tags: ★★★☆☆
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). Star rating: ★★★☆☆

I'd originally wanted to view "While We're Young" in this time slot but "Unfriended" was airing in the larger Vmax cinema which is atypical of films in the horror genre. I'm not convinced that "Unfriended" is deserving of being made as a feature-length film - it's wholly reliant on a gimmick that's not quite original and sabotages its own tension, leaving behind an experience that quickly becomes a chore.

For the most part, “Unfriended" takes place within the screen of a laptop. It's remarkably similar to "Cyberbully" (2015), starring Maisie Williams, which tells the story of an enigmatic hacker who's out for vengeance after the main character causes the suicide of a school colleague through cyber-bullying. In fact, that's the exact premise of "Unfriended," only that instead of existing to preach against the sin of cyber-bullying, it focuses on the retribution - the supernatural kind. Blaire Lily (Shelley Hennig) and her morally bankrupt friends draw the ire of Laura Barns (Heather Sossaman) who didn't quite manage to kill herself properly.

It's a shame that "Unfriended" does such a good job of dissolving the excitement that typically accompanies the anticipation of menace. The supernatural force has a fetish for counting down; we're told exactly when the characters will encounter peril. Like "Cyberbully", we witness these events through online videos which stutter so as to obscure our view of the vengeful spirit. Perhaps this was more realistic than was intended as I found it to be an exercise in frustration; the laziness of "Unfriended's" scares was almost offensive. I found myself constantly expecting a kind of digital haunting - like the eerie computer scenes in “1408” (2007) - but the supernatural force comes and goes in an instant, it doesn’t seem to enjoy playing with its food.

Speaking of laziness, there existed a few technological goofs that I found rather amusing. In the frames showing Blaire's Facebook messages, the date format shifts from "13/12/2013" to "13 December" and back again; it seems that a retake of the few Facebook screens was too much effort after the new year passed. We also witness Blaire navigating her computer whilst first having her right hand in the air and then her left. The film is also inconsistent in its use of Skype’s screen-share function - for a period of time, the other characters shift from being able to see Laura’s screen to not being able see and then back again.

I hope that "Unfriended" sets a precedent for the screening of horror films in the larger Vmax theatres for "It Follows" to, well, follow if or when it arrives on Australia's shores but as it stands, "Unfriended" itself is undeserving of such a privilege and would be much better suited for the home computer screen - as a testament to both its nature and its quality.
