---
layout: post
category: film
title: Wolf Children (2012)
tags: ★★★★½ 
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). Star rating: ★★★★½ 

Feature length animated films are a scarce good. There’s no room for accidents; every shot is composed with deliberation and for many moviegoers, the process of watching an animation is also one of deliberation. It’s not a monthly affair; we often wait months for the next one and there’s always an implicit expectation of quality. In that respect, “Wolf Children” (2012) is the soulful story that I didn’t know I was waiting for. It’s a story of parenthood: the rise & fall of family and all the trials & tribulations in between.

Directed by Hosoda Mamoru, “Wolf Children” (2012, AKA Ōkami Kodomo no Ame to Yuki) is a departure from his earlier action adventures, “Summer Wars” and the pair of “Digimon Adventure” films, but it retains much of their youthful energy - only in a much more refined form. We follow Hana, an ordinary college girl with a gentle disposition that can only be described as saintly, and her blossoming romance with the Wolf Man, the last of his kind and with an enigma to boot. His name is never revealed to us but we learn much about their children, the titular Ame & Yuki.

With her children caught between two worlds, it’s a constant struggle of nature versus nurture for Hana. It’s unsurprising that she wants the civility of mankind for her children - she’s only human after all, in both meanings of the word. However, there’s only so much that she can do. Having moved far away from the prying eyes of the city, the call of the wild is inescapable. As Hana remarks, 10 years makes a human child but for wolves, the onset of adulthood is a distant memory. It’s a simple story, unburdened by twisting narrative elements. Ame & Yuki’s conflicts come from within but unlike their heritage, the tale of the wolf children is resolutely human.

However, the progression of Ame & Yuki can only be described as predictable and on that note, I can say that the message of the film feels somewhat contrived. There’s not much in the way of subtlety in this film; the children explicitly ask each other why the other thinks of themselves as wolf or human. Hana does much the same - she vocalises her thoughts and leaves little to our interpretation. Hosoda’s choices at the end of the film will leave many dissatisfied. I felt that by that point in the film, this particular theme had been thoroughly explored and the film sacrificed too much of its soul-soothing quality to deliver the final nail-in-the-coffin. It becomes melodramatic and oversaturated in symbolism - we see a mother bear with her two cubs and visions of her child’s silhouette morphing into the Wolf Man’s. Being too on-the-nose does no favours for “Wolf Children.”

It’s been far too long since my initial viewing of “Wolf Children” with the original Japanese dub upon its release in 2012 but I can comment on the English dub which I was exposed to on my re-watch. I feel that English dubs generally have a bad reputation - they’re often miscast and don’t quite feel natural. I also feel that English-speaking audiences are more critical towards English dubs as they’re more familiar with the language - it’s difficult to be critical of original language dubs when you don’t have exposure to it in its natural environment. “Wolf Children’s” English voice actors are, for the most part, more than adequate. The adults sound natural and are free from overly emotional inflections. The children are voiced by 30-somethings, as is typical in other animations, but are believable nonetheless. Unfortunately, one of the teenage voices was less than perfect; Sohei, a male student voiced by Jason Liebrecht, stood out a little - in the same way that bad ADR stands out in live action films.

The dialogue is noticeably changed from the original Japanese version - it’s more spritzy and lighthearted. There’s a lot of colloquialisms that are specific to Western culture but it’s not enough to disrupt the overall feel of the film. However, the dialogue does fall apart towards the finale - it becomes overwritten and Hosoda begins force-feeding the film’s message. I’m fond of imagining what it’d feel like if lines by animated characters were instead said in a live action setting. When Hana yells “he’s right! You’re where you belong!” whilst reaching out for the sky, the thought of transplanting this scene into real life made my eyes roll out of their sockets. It’s true that animated films are allowed to get away with a lot of things but here, “Wolf Children” doesn’t avoid becoming campy.

The animation quality is about what you’d expect from a film in this day and age. Viewers of Shinkai Makoto’s works will find the traced backgrounds familiar - they’re sharp but lack any imaginative quality, unlike the cosmic mindscapes of “5 Centimetres Per Second’s” skies. On the other hand, “Wolf Children’s” character designs are commendable: the lines are soft and shift often, giving the film much of its gentle feel. The stereotypical look of a Japanese animated character is avoided; the faces are characterised by wide jaws and mouths and I found myself easily recalling the people of “Wolf Children” even three years after my first viewing. Notably, Ame and Yuki in their hybrid wolf forms looked more like they were dressed in onesies - some viewers may chalk this up to laziness but I consider it to be a design choice with an air of whimsy.

Soundtracks can be the most enduring part of animated films. It’s difficult to forget “One Summer’s Day” from “Spirited Away” (2001) or “Distant Everyday Memories” from “5 Centimetres Per Second” (2007) but you’d be hard pressed to say the same for “Wolf Children.” Like the aforementioned songs, the piano is the instrument of choice but its role is more harmonic than melodic. From the swirling beats that follow Hana’s daily life with the Wolf Man to the rushing stringendo hammering that flies alongside Hana and her wolves, as they race down the snowy slopes of a wintry mountain in a scene reminiscent of Hosoda’s earlier film “The Girl Who Leapt Through Time” (2006), the music is as fleeting and enjoyable as Hana’s time with the Wolf Man but its legacy not nearly as enduring.

The wolf children’s names, Ame and Yuki, mean “rain” and “snow” but the film is anything but cold. Despite a clumsy final act, Hosoda cements himself in the league of modern Japanese animated film directors with a story that’s equal parts child-like whimsy and solemn emotional struggle. To recycle my own words, the children may be half wolf but "Wolf Children" is wholly human.
